To demonstrate how to change the test instance lifecycle.
I will use calculator project where we have created the few test classes that demonstrate how to order
test methods.
So let's open test class that makes our test methods run in order.
One after another.
It's called methods ordered by order index test.
If I run all test methods in this course by default, do you need to create a new test instance for
each test method?
And this lifecycle is called test instance per method.
And it is equivalent to adding this annotation.
It is called test instance, and in certain brackets you will use test instance, dot, lifecycle,
dot, and then permitted.
So this is a default configuration and to see if there is indeed a new instance of a class created for
each test method, we can add the member variable and print it Steve in each test method.
So let's try inside of my class and create a new instance variable which is going to be string builder
data type for example.
And I will call it completed maybe.
And by default it's going to be empty.
So I will use this string builder to open the string to it.
When each test method executes.
For example, when this D runs first.
So it has order in this one and this method will run first.
So once this method runs, it will append one to it.
For example, I will use string builder object and now I will append a string value, which is just
one.
All right.
One test to execute, which is my test.
E So when this test executes is going to execute.
Second, in order it will append two to my string builder and when the third test is going to execute,
it will append three.
And when the fourth test is going to execute, it will append four.
Like this.
And now I will add a lifecycle method that is going to print the state of this string builder object
after each test completes.
So I will screw up and here I will add a new method which is going to be called after each maybe.
And it will simply print out.
The state of this member of, for example, the state of instance, object he's completed.
All right.
So when this method runs, it will print this string.
The state of instance object is and then whatever has been appended to this string builder that is called
completed and doing this method, Iran, after each test that I will annotated with after each patient
like this.
All right.
So now let's execute all test methods in this test class and see how it works.
I will save changes and they will click on a run button and run all test methods in this class.
And here I have my output when first method run the output is the state of instance object is one 1/2
test method executed.
The output is the state of instance, object is two and when the third test method executed, the state
of instance object is three.
Right?
So even though I have executed all test methods and each, this method has appended one character to
my string builder.
The value of string builder is still a single character in each test method, which means that every
time a new test method executes the initial state of my string builder object is empty.
This is because test methods runs in a brand new instance with test class.
Now let's change it and make our test method in the same single instance of a test class.
And to do that, I will change the test instance lifecycle from permitted to B per class.
Now if I save changes and execute all test methods in this class.
I now have a different result.
When first test method completed.
The output is the state of instance.
Object is one one character.
But when the second test method executed, the output is already two characters one and two, and after
test method for good executed.
The value that my string builder object contains is already four characters one, two, three and four,
which proves that test methods share the same class instance.